Every natural language processing
tool has to be evaluated and
language models have to
be evaluated as well.
What does it mean for a language
model to be a good language model?
In general we say a good language
model is one that is better at
finding the good sentences and
liking them more than the bad sentences.
Or, more specifically, we want to assign
a higher probability to real or, perhaps,
frequently observed sentences
than ungrammatical,
or impossible, or
at least rarely observed sentences.
So that's the goal of our
evaluating a language model.
Now, we train the parameters of
a language model on a training set
and we test the model's performance
on data that we haven't seen.
So we have some training data and
some unseen data.
This unseen data's called a test set.
And we want it to be something that's
not the same as our training set,
totally unused,
we've never looked at it before.
And that will be a fair
evaluation of our model.
And then we'll need an evaluation
metric that tells you
how well does your model
do on this unseen test set.
So what are these evaluation models?
The best evaluation, best way of comparing
any two models, two language models A and
B, is to put each model in a task.
So we're going to build our spelling
corrector, or speech recognizer,
or MT system, whatever our application
is that uses language models.
We'll put our language model in there, and
now we'll run our task and we'll get some
accuracy for the system running with
model A, the system running with model B.
Perhaps that's how many misspelled
words are corrected properly if we're
doing spelling correction or
how many words are translated
correctly if we're doing translation.
And now we just compare
the accuracy of the two models.
Whichever model has a higher accuracy
is the better language model.
So this is called extrinsic evaluation.
We're using something external
to to the N-gram model itself.
And looking at our performance
on that external task.
The problem with this kind of extrinsic
evaluation, it's also called in-vivo
evaluation, is that it's time-consuming.
In many cases, this can take days or weeks
for a modern machine translation system or
a modern speech recognition system.
Running evaluations can
often be extremely slow.
So instead what we sometimes
use is an intrinsic evaluation,
something that's intrinsically about
language models themselves and
not about any particular application.
And the most common intrinsic
evaluation is called perplexity.
Now perplexity happens to be a bad
approximation to an extrinsic evaluation
unless it turns out that the test data
looks a lot like the training data.
So generally, perplexity is useful
only in pilot experiments, but
it does help to think about the problem,
and
it's a useful tool as long as we also
use extrinsic evaluation as well.
So let's think about
the intuition of perplexity.
And like many ideas in language modeling,
this dates back to Claude Shannon.
So Shannon proposed, among many other
things, a game about word prediction.
How well can we predict the next word?
So for example, we've seen sentences like
I always order pizza with cheese and,
and our job is to predict the next word.
So from this first sentence, we might say,
well, a good language model might guess
that we are likely to have mushrooms and
likely to have pepperoni, and maybe less
likely to have anchovies because anchovies
are somewhat less popular than mushrooms.
And very unlikely to put
fried rice on our pizza, and
extremely unlikely let's say,
to have and and.
Although, people, I guess,
do say and and after the word and.
And so how well the model predicts
the actual words that occur
is how good the model is.
So a model on a sentence like the 33rd
President of the US we know the next word
is very likely to be JFK or John or
Kennedy or some word like that.
So this is a very predictable case.
Here we have, I saw a,
anything could come next.
So in some cases we're going to be much
better predicting the next word and
in some cases very much worse, but
a good language model on average should
do better than a bad language model.
Now it turns out that unigrams are very
bad at this game, and if you think for
a second, you'll realize why.
So in summary, a better model of text, a
better language model, is one that assigns
a higher probability to
whatever word actually occurs.
If you can guess right the next word,
you are a good language model.
So the best language model is the one
that best predicts an unseen test set, or
assigns on average the highest
probability of a sentence
to all the sentences that it sees.
If you give me a new test set, and I try
using different language models to assign
a probability to each of its sentences,
the better language model is the one that
says, I knew that sentence was coming,
and assigns it a very high probability.
Now the perplexity,
this new metric we're going to be using,
is inversely related to probability.
It's the inverse probability of the test
set, normalized by the number of words.
Let's imagine our test set is
a single long sentence, n words long.
We compute the complexity of this n
word sentence by taking the inverse
probability, one over its probability,
and then normalizing by length,
by taking the nth root.
We take the nth root because otherwise
the longer the sentence, the lower
the probability, since we're multiplying
lots of low probability engrams together.
So we want a normalizing factor so we can
compare test sets of different lengths.
So just showing this another way, the
perplexity of a string of words of length
n is the nth root of one over
the probability of the string of words.
So by the chain rule,
the probability of the string of words
one through n is the product over all i
of the probability of each word
given the entire prefix beforehand.
We're just using the chain rule here to
rewrite the probability of a long sequence
with the product of the probabilities
of each word given its prefix.
And then for
bigrams, by our mark up approximation
to the chain rule, we can estimate
the probability of a sequence of words
with the product of a bunch of bigrams.
So the perplexity of a string of words
according to a bigram model is the nth
root of the inverse of the product
of n bigram probabilities.
So because of this inversion,
minimizing perplexity is the same
as maximizing probability.
And this is important to keep in
mind when thinking about perplexity.
There's another intuition for perplexity,
also based on Shannon, and
this example comes from Josh Goodman.
And this second intuition for
perplexity relies on the idea
that perplexity is the average related
to the average branching factor.
Perplexity at any point in a sentence is,
on average,
how many things could occur next?
And we'll see later this is related to
the probability of the upcoming things,
related to the entropy
of the upcoming things.
But roughly speaking, if I had 10
possible words that could come next and
they were all equal probability,
my perplexity would be 10.
So for example,
if I am recognizing the 10 digits,
then the perplexity of the task is 10.
There's 10 possible things that could come
next and I can't decide between them.
If I have to recognize when I'm
building a speech recognizer for
a switchboard phone service, and
I have to recognize 30,000 names,
then the perplexity of the names is
30,000 if they're all equally likely.
But suppose a system has to represent,
has to recognize, let's say again,
a phone switchboard, phone operator,
automatic phone operator,
has to recognize the word operator,
and that occurs a quarter of the time.
The word sales,
that occurs a quarter of the time.
Or the word technical support that
occurs a quarter of the time, and
then with 1 over 120,000 times each,
another 30,000 names occur.
So, now we have to take the weighted
average of all these possibilities of what
could occur to compute on average
how likely is any one word to occur.
And now the perplexity is 54.
So the perplexity again is the weighted
equivalent branching factor.
So let's examine this
new kind of perplexity,
the weighted equivalent branching factor,
and
show that it's the same as this
inverted normalized probability metric.
So let's take a sentence
consisting of random digits.
What's the perplexity of this sentence
according to a model that assigns
equal probability to each digit?
So we'll see the perplexity of
the sentence, this string of digits,
let's make it,
it doesn't matter how long it is.
So we have a bunch of digits.
And the probability of
this bunch of digits,
we'll call them digit 1,
digit 2, through digit n.
The perplexity by our first
metric is negative 1 is
the probability of this sequence
to the negative 1 over n.
And since we've said that each of these
words has a probability of one-tenth and
assuming a unigram probability,
that's probably one-tenth
times one-tenth times one-tenth
times one-tenth and so on.
That's one-tenth to the n,
because there were n words.
So, make it -1/n, and
as we can see over here, that's equal to,
the n's cancel,
we get 1/10 to the -1, or we get 10.
So, by thinking about perplexity as the
normalized probability of a long string,
we can sort of see the intuition
that the average branching factor by
normalizing for the length we're
sort of asking how many things can
occur at each time weighted
by their probability.
All right, so now perplexity in general,
the lower the perplexity
the better of the model.
So for example, here's where a training
set trained on 38 million words
tested on 1.5 million words from
the newspaper the Wall Street Journal.
And a unigram model has
a perplexity of 962.
A bigram model has a much lower,
much more accurate perplexity of 170 and
a trigram model has even lower perplexity.
So perplexity, since it's modeling
something like average branching factor or
average predictability,
the lower you get the better you are at
predicting the actual data that occurs.